---
    title: 'Day 1, Lab01 - Manage Azure Active Directory Users and Groups'
---

# Student lab manual

## Lab scenario

In order to allow **OurCompany** users to authenticate by using Azure AD, you have been tasked with provisioning users and group accounts.

## Objectives

In this lab, you will:

+ Task 1: Create and configure Azure AD users
+ Task 2: Create Azure AD groups with assigned and dynamic membership

## Estimated timing: 30 minutes

## Instructions

### Exercise 1

#### Task 1: Create and configure Azure AD users

In this task, you will create and configure Azure AD users.

1. In the Azure portal, search for and select **Azure Active Directory**.

1. On the Azure Active Directory blade, scroll down to the **Manage** section, click **User settings**, and review available configuration options.

1. On the Azure Active Directory blade, in the **Manage** section, click **Users**, and then click your user account to display its **Profile** settings. 

1. Click **edit**, in the **Settings** section, set **Usage location** to **North Macedonia** and save the change.

    >**Note**: This is necessary in order to assign an Azure AD Premium P2 license to your user account later in this lab.

1. Navigate back to the **Users - All users** blade, and then click **+ New user**.

1. Create a new user with the following settings (leave others with their defaults):

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | User name | **azuser01-aad** |
    | Name | **azuser01-aad** |
    | Let me create the password | Enabled |
    | Initial password | **Pa55w.rd135** |
    | Usage location | **North Macedonia** |
    | Job title | **Cloud Administrator** |
    | Department | **IT** |

    >**Note**: **Copy to clipboard** the full **User Principal Name** (user name plus domain). You will need it later in this task.

1. In the list of users, click the newly created user account to display its blade.

1. Review the options available in the **Manage** section and note that you can identify the Azure AD roles assigned to the user account as well as the user account's permissions to Azure resources.

1. In the **Manage** section, click **Assigned roles**, then click **+ Add assignment** button and assign the **User administrator** role to **azuser-01-aad**.

    >**Note**: You also have the option of assigning Azure AD roles when provisioning a new user.

1. Open an **InPrivate** browser window and sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) using the newly created user account. When prompted to update the password, change the password for the user.

    >**Note**: Rather than typing the user name (including the domain name), you can paste the content of Clipboard.

1. In the **InPrivate** browser window, in the Azure portal, search for and select **Azure Active Directory**.

    >**Note**: While this user account can access the Azure Active Directory tenant, it does not have any access to Azure resources. This is expected, since such access would need to be granted explicitly by using Azure Role-Based Access Control. 

1. In the **InPrivate** browser window, on the Azure AD blade, scroll down to the **Manage** section, click **User settings**, and note that you do not have permissions to modify any configuration options.

1. In the **InPrivate** browser window, on the Azure AD blade, in the **Manage** section, click **Users**, and then click **+ New user**.

1. Create a new user with the following settings (leave others with their defaults):

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | User name | **azuser02-aad** |
    | Name | **azuser02-aad** |
    | Let me create the password | Enabled |
    | Initial password | **Pa55w.rd135** |
    | Usage location | **North Macedonia** |
    | Job title | **System Administrator** |
    | Department | **IT** |

1. Sign out as the **azuser01-aad** user from the Azure portal and close the InPrivate browser window.

#### Task 2: Create Azure AD groups with assigned and dynamic membership

In this task, you will create Azure Active Directory groups with assigned and dynamic membership.

1. Back in the Azure portal where you are signed in with your user account, navigate back to the **Overview** blade of the Azure AD tenant and, in the **Manage** section, click **Licenses**.

    >**Note**: Azure AD Premium P1 or P2 licenses are required in order to implement dynamic groups.

1. In the **Manage** section, click **All products**.

1. Click **+ Try/Buy** and activate the free trial of Azure AD Premium P2.

1. Refresh the browser window to verify that the activation was successful. 

1. From the **Licenses - All products** blade, select the **Azure Active Directory Premium P2** entry, and assign all license options of Azure AD Premium P2 to your user account and the two newly created user accounts.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the Azure AD tenant blade and click **Groups**.

1. Use the **+ New group** button to create a new group with the following settings:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Group type | **Security** |
    | Group name | **IT Cloud Administrators** |
    | Group description | **OurCompany IT cloud administrators** |
    | Membership type | **Dynamic User** |

    >**Note**: If the **Membership type** drop-down list is grayed out, wait a few minutes and refresh the browser page.

1. Click **Add dynamic query**.

1. On the **Configure Rules** tab of the **Dynamic membership rules** blade, create a new rule with the following settings:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Property | **jobTitle** |
    | Operator | **Equals** |
    | Value | **Cloud Administrator** |

1. Save the rule and, back on the **New Group** blade, click **Create**. 

1. Back on the **Groups - All groups** blade of the Azure AD tenant, click the **+ New group** button and create a new group with the following settings:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Group type | **Security** |
    | Group name | **IT System Administrators** |
    | Group description | **OurCompany IT system administrators** |
    | Membership type | **Dynamic User** |

1. Click **Add dynamic query**.

1. On the **Configure Rules** tab of the **Dynamic membership rules** blade, create a new rule with the following settings:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Property | **jobTitle** |
    | Operator | **Equals** |
    | Value | **System Administrator** |

1. Save the rule and, back on the **New Group** blade, click **Create**. 

1. Back on the **Groups - All groups** blade of the Azure AD tenant, click the **+ New group** button, and create a new group with the following settings:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Group type | **Security** |
    | Group name | **IT Lab Administrators** |
    | Group description | **OurCompany IT Lab administrators** |
    | Membership type | **Assigned** |

1. Click **No members selected**.

1. From the **Add members** blade, search and select the **IT Cloud Administrators** and **IT System Administrators** groups and, back on the **New Group** blade, click **Create**.

1. Back on the **Groups - All groups** blade, click the entry representing the **IT Cloud Administrators** group and, on then display its **Members** blade. Verify that the **azuser01-aad** appears in the list of group members.

1. Navigate back to the **Groups - All groups** blade, click the entry representing the **IT System Administrators** group and, on then display its **Members** blade. Verify that the **azuser02-aad** appears in the list of group members.

    >**Note**: You might experience delays with updates of the dynamic membership groups. To expedite the update, navigate to the group blade, display its **Dynamic membership rules** blade, **Edit** the rule listed in the **Rule syntax** textbox by adding a whitespace at the end, and **Save** the change.

#### Review

In this lab, you have:

- Created and configured Azure AD users
- Created Azure AD groups with assigned and dynamic membership
- Created an Azure Active Directory (AD) tenant
- Managed Azure AD guest users 
